Il Lord filed a general insurance claim
of ₹209 but the settlement was only ₹114619.
Here a deduction of ₹5590 was made.
In today's video, I am going to tell you that
we will cover three topics here. The
first topic will be where can we make a claim.
Topic number two will be which
documents to upload and number three will be
how to avoid deduction. So stay tuned to the video till the end
so that you are not detected here.
First of all, you have to open the Play Store
and here you have to install Il's Oil Tech
Care Insurance app.
After that, we will open this app from here.
After opening this application, you will have to
register in it with the same number
which you have given in the insurance.
After that, as soon as the application opens,
your policy will be visible here.
You can see the policy here. I am seeing an
insurance policy of ₹2 lakh.
After that, if you want to make a claim, then
we will come to the claim option mentioned below.
Click on the claim option.  After that, look
here File Claim and Track a Claim, if
you have made a claim earlier then you will have to go to Track
Claim and if you want to make a new
policy claim then you will
click on the File Claim option here, then you
can see here two options are showing us,
one is Pre and Post Hospitalization
and the other is Hospitalization Reimbursement, so
what happens in Pre and Post is that you
can claim here for 60 days before admission and up to 60 days after discharge, and
what happens in Hospitalization Reimbursement is that you can
claim all your expenses from admission till discharge here,
so today we are going to see
how to do the process of hospitalization reimbursement, here we are going to
click on the Hospitalization Reimbursement option,
after that see, here it is
showing the policy number, policy start date and
policy end date,
after that patient name, if I am the patient myself then
my name will come here, if there is some other
patient then you will have to select the name from here below
Any family member who is added in your policy, it is fine,
after that their card number will also be
visible here, below that you have to
enter the mobile number here, after entering the mobile number,
enter your email ID below,
you will have to enter your permanent address here
and below that see AB AA number
i.e. health card, we have to
get it made online, if you
have it then you can enter it here,
if not then it is optional, you
can leave it blank and proceed,
after clicking on the proceed option, next it is asking us for hospitalization details, that is,
in which hospital
we were admitted, so we have to enter its details here,
first of all you have to select the state here,
like if I was
admitted in Maharashtra then I will
select its state in Maharashtra, if it is in Karnataka then
Karnataka, the hospitalization that happened in us was
in Karnataka, hence we will
select the state here,
Karnataka, so we have selected Karnataka,
after that we have to select the city from here,
so we will select our city from here,
after that  Look, here we have to
enter the name of the hospital, so
whatever the name of the hospital is, you can enter it here, so
ours was KBN
Hospital and after that you have to select the admission date
from here, by clicking on this option
you have to
enter the details of the date on which you were admitted there,
so we have entered our details here
and after that
you have to enter the discharge details below it, so
we have selected the discharge details from here
and look below that the option here is
saying cashless avail during
hospitalization, so if there were cashless
services there then we will say yes, if there were not, then we will say
no, so obviously we are doing reinvestment, so
here we have to say no and
after that look, here we are
entering the total amount of the claim,
okay, so this much was our expenditure there
and we have all the bills etc. for it, so you have to enter the amount of the
bills proof that you have
here, after that
see, we will click on the proceed option,
now guys here  If the bank is asking for details, then
in the bank details, the proposer
name means the main policy holder in whose
name the policy is, his details have to be entered. The
patient's details are not to be entered here.
This policy is in my name, so I will
enter my name here. Below that, there is the
proposer bank account number, in which I will
enter my bank account number.
After that, I will confirm it one more time by
entering the account number and then I will
enter the IFSC code of the bank. Below that, I have to
enter the bank name, which bank
is it, what is the branch of that bank,
you have to enter the branch name here. Below that, you have to
enter your PAN card number.
After filling up so much detail, check it once if it is
correct and then
click on the proceed option.
After clicking on the proceed option, the popup message that we have got here is
very important. Look here,
kindly cross all medical bills before
uploading. Check below how to cross. Okay, so on
all the bills that you have,
you have to mark a cross in this way and
write in it that for IIC.  Lumbed Use Only
means we are going to use this only
for claiming ICICI Lumbed Insurance.
We have to
write that document like this and only after that we have to upload it. So
now see, the document upload
option has come here, so
which documents have to be uploaded in it,
we have to select it from the select comment here.
Okay, so first of all the
claim form comes here, you will get the claim form
here on the official website of ICICI. There is
a separate video on how to fill it up,
you can watch it and fill it up there.
If you know then no problem,
you will have to make a PDF of the claim form and
upload it here. Guys, you have to
upload all these documents here one by one.
Okay, so first we will select the claim form and
upload it.
After that, look, there is a cancelled cheque below. In the cancelled cheque,
you have to upload the cheque of the proposer i.e. the main holder's
account details which we have entered.
Below that,
you will have to enter your Aadhar card in the identity proof also.
Of the policy holder,
look below it, the discharge
summary. You have to upload the PDF of the discharge summary which you get from the hospital
here.
After that, below the final
hospitalization bill,
I got queries thrice because of the final hospitalization bill
and my claim got delayed.
So I will tell you
how to make this final hospitalization bill and
how to give its breakup details.
I am going to give you a sample of all that here.
Okay, below that is the investigation
report. So friends, the deduction that I have made has happened
because of the investigation report. The
deduction of Rs. 000 out of Rs. 5590 has happened
due to not submitting the investigation report here. So I will
give you the details of that too which I have received on the mail.
After that, look below, there are pharmacy and medicine
bills. You have to
scan all your bills, make a PDF and
upload it here. Below that, look below, there is the
payment receipt. You have to upload the receipt of the payments that you have made to the hospital
here. So, so many
documents are compulsory here below that.
I have not uploaded the documents,
after that you can see here, there are two
check boxes given below, we have to click on this check box
and click on the submit option, then
our claim will be
successfully processed here and will be
submitted and after that if we want to
check it then we
can go to the track claim option, so guys, the
document which I was
asked to upload here, I will tell you about that document here, first of all
I will
tell you about the final hospitalization bill,
how to enter the breakup details in it,
here it is written final hospital bill,
look below it enter the hospital name, we have
entered the hospital address, below that the patient's name
sex male female aadhar card
number is entered, after that date of admission
date of discharge and IP number, that is when
you were getting admitted, you get a number,
that number is entered there,
look below it, here the total hospital
and pharmacy bills of 20209
is there, okay so the most important part is
this, the detail breakup here  Only if there is
proper detail, our bill will be
accepted otherwise they will
reject it here so look at the first column here there is
Particulars after that bill number
bill date time and amount how much amount has been
spent for it here okay so
look here there is HBsAg spot test,
its bill number has been entered here and
bill date has been entered time has been entered and
for that charges of ₹10 have been levied in the first row
so in this way its complete
details have been entered here as to how much has been charged for which test
okay now
scroll down further below this and I will tell you so
look below this here ICU charges are
written here after that surgical charges
its bill number is 5000 here is its
bill the total details of the bill of surgical appliances which we had
purchased from the medical have been entered here
and pharmacy and medicine
equipments okay so this has been
entered here like this you have to make a bill
which will have complete details and on it you will have to
get signature and stamp from the hospital
after that this is the final bill which
you will get  It has to be uploaded here, okay, so now
I will tell you how the deduction that we had done happened, so
after the settlement, I got a PDF from them on mail in
which they told me for which
things the deduction has been done, so
see the requested amount here is 20209 and the net
sanction amount is ₹1 14619, okay, the
disallowed amount is 5590 which they have
deducted and that is given here, everything is
in the bill breakup, okay, so look here,
₹10 for soap has been deducted here,
40 for gloves, 600 for gloves, 100 for face masks,
₹1 166 for ECG electrodes, ₹10 for soap
and 20 for pampers, they do not claim these things here, that is
why the amount of this has gone,
but below that the most important one is
Deduction as Investigation
Report Not Furnished, meaning
we had not uploaded the investigation report here
nor their  The employee had told me that
an investigation report is required
because I had asked them about everything before the claim
but they did not tell me this thing and
because of that I got a deduction of 070 here.
Now you can see here that
070 is due to not giving a report
which I had but they did
not ask for it, so I did not know how to
give it and look below it, Deducted
towards Reasonable and Customer Charges, the
customer charges which are there in their terms and conditions,
they have deducted ₹1.24 here
but the most
important thing is that no one has
mentioned this investigation report here, no
one has told you, so your
amount should not be deducted here, that is why I am
making this video.
You have to upload all the documents properly here. All the
documents that I have
mentioned in the video, you should
not miss any document and have to upload them in the proper format.
You can create a PDF file and upload it there.  The most
important thing is the final hospitalization
bill, which should have complete details with the breakup of
how much has been charged for which item, on which
date, at which time
and after that this investigation report,
okay, so after uploading these things here,
your entire net amount will
come to you here, the amount which is not claimed here is that of
gloves and mask and soap,
okay, so skip this and the rest of the
amount will come to you here, so if
you liked the information, then
like the video, subscribe to the channel and
click on the bell icon so that
you keep getting updates of every upcoming video, thank you,
that's all for today, see you
in the next video